This is just some random text.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cut this line and paste it after the line of hyphens.

The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.
This line should come after "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog."

Every good boy deserves fudge.

One does not simply walk into the data center.
Its gates are guarded by more than just computer operators.

There are system administrators there that do not sleep.

if

abcdef

Move this to the beginning.

Can you dupe dupe this?

Can you double dupe double dupe this?

Can you double dupe double dupe this, again?

Duplicate this entire line.
Duplicate this entire line.

In the works of Eco, a predominant concept is the distinction between opening
and closing. Lacan suggests the use of the subcultural paradigm of expression to
challenge hierarchy. Thus, the characteristic theme of la Fournier’s analysis of
subcultural theory is the difference between class and society.

In the works of Eco, a predominant concept is the distinction between opening
and closing. Lacan suggests the use of the subcultural paradigm of expression to
challenge hierarchy. Thus, the characteristic theme of la Fournier’s analysis of
subcultural theory is the difference between class and society.

value.

TODO
TODO
TODO
Fix this line too!
TODO

The subject is interpolated into a subcultural theory that includes art as a
paradox. It could be said that if preconstructive materialism holds, the works
of Tarantino are empowering.

Put this line in the a register.
Put this one in the b register.
Put this line in the a register.
Put this one in the b register.
Append this line to the a register.
Append this line to the b register.

<= Cut this word into the z register.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This training is being provided by LinuxTrainingAcademy.com.


cut, copy & paste... why???
. move text around a file
. duplicate text
. make an in-file backup
. reuse the same text

you've already been cutting
. d and x cut text, not just deleting it
. cut = delete and save into a register
. register is a clipboard-like storage location

standard vs vim
cut = delete
copy = yank
paste = put

yy = copy the line

register types
. unnamed
  ""
  "" holds text from d, c, s, x and y operations
. numbered
  "0 "1 ... "9
  "0 holds last text yanked (y)
  "1 holds last text deleted (d) or changed (c)
  numbered registers shift with each d or c
. named

to view registers type `:reg<ENTER>`


Cut, Copy, and Paste (Delete, Yank, and Put)
Goal:
The goal of this exercise is to give you practice with cut, copy, and paste operations.
Additionally you'll get a chance to work with registers.

Instructions:

Open the dyp,txt file

First, start a command line session on your local machine.
Next, use vim to open the "dyp.tx" file that cam in the course downloads.
To do that, navigate to the location of the file.
Remember this could be different for you depending on where you extracted the contens of the file.
This example assumes the course download was saved into your Downloads folder and extracted from there.

cd Downloads
cd vimclass
vim dyp.txt

First, delete the first line of the file by typing dd.
This places the line into the default register.
Now put the line below the new first line in the file with the p command.

Here is what the first wo lines of the file look like before you edit.

This was originally the first line in the file.
This was originally the second line in the file.

Here is what they look like after:

This was originally the second line in the file.
This was originally the first line in the file.

Put the first line in another place in the file

Remember that you can reuse the contents of the default register.
Place the original first line of the file just below this line:

What was the first line in the file originally? Place it below:

To do that, position your cursor on that line and use the put command by typeing p.

Practice putting lines above your cursor position

Put the original first line in the file just above this line:
What was the first line in the file originally? Place it above:

To do that, place your cursor on that line and type P.

Fix spelling/typing mistakes by swapping characters

Position your cursor under the "e" on this line:
teh

Swap the "e" and "h" so that the word reads "the".
To do that, type x to delete the "e" and p to paste it after your current cursor position.

Use the same process to fix the spelling or typing mistakes on the following four lines:
psell = spell
vmi = vim
wrod = word
taht = that

Swap words

Change this line from:
second, First, third.

To
First, second, third.

To do that position your cursor at the beginning of the line under the s in the word second.
Delete it along with the comma that follows with the dW command.
(Notice the capital W).
Next, position your cursor at the beginning of the word third by typing W.
Now put the text in the default register before your cursor position with the P command.

Duplicate a line

Duplicate the following line, placing another copy of it just below it:
Duplicate this line.
Position your cursor on the line and yank it into the default register with yy.
Next. paste it below the line with the p command.

Duplicate a word

Duplicate the words "really, really," on the following line:

I really, really, love vim!

Place your cursor under r in the first occurence of the word really.
Next yank those two words, including the puctuation, into the default register with y2W.
Next, paste them before your current cursor position with P.

I really, really, really, really, love vim!

Use the numbered registers

Put the text "TODO" above any lines in the file that start with "Fix this".
Also, delete any lines that read "Delete this".
Start at your current cursor position and work your way down throgh the file mixing your deletes and puts.

First, yank the line that reads "TODO" with yy.
Next delete the two lines that read "Delete this" with 2dd.
Position your cursor on the line that reads "Fix this" and paste "TODO" above it.
To do that you'll need to use the "0 register which contains the most recent yanked text.
Type "0P.
Repeat this process until all the "Fix" lines have "TODO" above them and all the "Delete" lines are deleted.

Use named registers

Place the followig line in the "j register:

Yank this line into the "j register.

Position your cursor anywhere on the line an type "jyy

Now place the following line in the "f register

Yank this line into the "f register.

Position your cursor anywhere on the line and type "fyy.

Next put the contents of the "j register below this line with "jp:

Put the contents of the "j register below:

Next put the contents of the "f register below this line with "fp:

Put the contents of the "f register below:

Put the contents of the "f register below:

Append the following line to the "j register.

Place your cursor anywhere on the line an type "Jyy. (Notice the capital J).

Append the following line to "f register:

Append this line to the "f register.

Place your cursor anywhere on the line and type "Fyy. (Notice the capital F).

Look at the contents of all the registers with :reg<ENTER>.
If you only want to view the "j and "f registers, use :reg jf<ENTER>

Now put the contents of the "j register below this line with "jp:

Put the contents of the "j register below:

Next put the contents of the "f register below this line with "fp:

Put the contents of the "f register below:

Undo and Redo

Delete the following three lines:
ONE)
TWO)
THREE)

You can do that by positioning your cursor on the first line and typing 3dd.
Undo your deletion by typing u.
Notice how all three of the lines return.

Redo your command with Ctrl+r.
Now the three lines are removed again.

Insert a new line into the file.
First enter insert mode with i.
Now type any sentence into vim.
For example, you could use this sentence:

Vim is fun!

Press <Escape> to return to normal mode.
To undo your text insertion type u.
Now redo your text insertion with Ctrl+r.

Your turn

I encourage you to experiment and come up with some of your own practice execises.
Better yet...
Do you have a file that needs editing?
Open it up in vim and try using some of your delete, yank, and put skills!

Exit out of vim

If you want to abandon your changes so you can try this practice exercise again, use :q!<ENTER>.
